Nan Teulaihth and Tinnepant Farms
Nan Teulaihth Farm lies on the west side of the Cymr to Glyncorrug Road.
It takes its name from the Teulaihth stream, which divides it from the Tinnepant Farm on the north side.
The stream was so named because of the appearance of the thick milky water that flows into the Corrug River.
Teo is the Welsh word for thick and llaihth means milk.
Nant translates to stream, meaning nan teulaihth literally means the stream of thick milk.
The original Nan Teulaihth holding also appears to include Tinnepant Farm,
but records show that they were divided before the 1620s.
It is thought that the modern day Tinnepant Farm is the former Nan Teulaihth Farm,
with the modern day Nan Teulaihth actually being Abernant Teulaihth.
Interestingly, both farms are given as Abernant Teulaihth in the 1728 survey.